Add OpenIDConnect provider documentation (#312)
Enalean/tuleap-documentation-en: languages/en/user-guide/oauth2.rst

.. _openidconnect_provider:

OAuth2 and OpenIDConnect
========================

.. attention::

  This module is part of :ref:`Tuleap Enterprise <tuleap-enterprise>`. It might
  not be available on your installation of Tuleap.

> The `OAuth2 <oauth2_>`_ and `OpenIDConnect <openidconnect_>`_ server plugin

Reviewer: I was puzzled at first read because I thought there was actually 2 plugins. I don't think it's relevant to write about plugins here

Author: What should I change ? Just remove that paragraph ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuleap `oauth2_server` plugin provides both  `OAuth2 <oauth2_>`_ and `OpenIDConnect <openidconnect_>`_ servers. This plugin allows...
```

Author: Thanks, done

allows for other websites to interconnect with Tuleap easily. Users can grant
authorizations to external websites or applications to let them access Tuleap
resources (through the :ref:`REST API <rest_api>`) or sign in with a Tuleap

> account.

Reviewer: Should we state that it's a recommended way to interact with API ?
What about SSO here ?

Author: I added a couple of lines for that

Setup
-----

The plugin ``tuleap-plugin-oauth2-server`` must be installed and enabled on your
Tuleap instance, see :ref:`install-plugins` to learn how to do that.

Client registration
-------------------

In order to use OAuth2 and OpenIDConnect, your Project Administrator must
manually register ([1]_) the application in your project.

.. figure:: ../images/screenshots/openidconnect/oidc-register-app.png

  In Project Administration, click on the "OAuth2 Apps" tab.

.. figure:: ../images/screenshots/openidconnect/oidc-register-app-modal.png

  When you click on "Add an App", a modal opens. Three fields must be filled:
  "App name" (text), "Redirect endpoint" (URL) and "Force usage

>   of PKCE to authenticate"  (checkbox)

Reviewer: If it's configurable, why the documentation makes a blanket statement "must be used" without further explanations ?

Author: I changed the formulation of the caption.

	application will need to use OAuth2. **Save it somewhere safe.** It is used
	by Tuleap to authenticate the application and is like a password.

Provider registration
---------------------

Next, register Tuleap as an OAuth2 server or OpenIDConnect provider in the
application. You will need to provide:

* The Application ID or Client ID. It starts by ``tlp-client-id-``.
* The Client Secret that appeared only once at Client registration. It starts by
  ``tlp-oauth2-c1-``.
* The Authorization endpoint: ``https://<your-tuleap-domain>/oauth2/authorize``.
  It is where the Client application will redirect users to ask Tuleap for
  authorization.
* The Token endpoint: ``https://<your-tuleap-domain>/oauth2/token``. It is where
  the Client application will request its OAuth2 token to be able to access
  the Tuleap REST API.
* The User Info endpoint: ``https://<your-tuleap-domain>/oauth2/userinfo``. It
  is where the Client application will get information about users that have
  authorized it, for example their user ID or user name.

Granting authorization
----------------------

Once the Client application is registered in your project and Tuleap is

> registered on the Client application, users can grant authorization to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
registered on the Client application, the Client application can ask users to grant authorization ...
```

Author: Done

Client application to access Tuleap.

The process starts in the Client application, which will redirect users to the
Authorization endpoint page:

.. figure:: ../images/screenshots/openidconnect/oidc-authorize.png

  Tuleap will ask you to authorize whatever permissions are requested by the
  Client application.

When you click on "Authorize", you will be redirected back to the Client
application. It will now have an Access Token that it can use to access Tuleap's
REST API on your behalf, with your permissions.

Revoking authorization
----------------------

> After having authorized a client application, you can revoke it whenever you

Reviewer: `you` is unclear. You should state the actors in play here. Maybe a first paragraph before the deep dive to explain what is the Server, Client application, User, etc and use it consistently after ?

Author: I added a "Definitions" paragraph and used "Client Application", "End-User" and "Project Administrator" terms to better differentiate roles
